Hello everyone and welcome to the recursion interview solution to the Fibonacci Sequence interview problem
.
All right before we get started just again a reminder as always there is a full solution notebook for
this interview question.
The recursion problems folder recursion problems solutions folder here.
So this is the notebook that has the solutions for all three of them.
All three requests and the tester solution cell.
All right.
So let's go ahead and begin what I'm going to do is go through the problem statement makes sure we understand
that and then do a walkthrough of the three separate solutions for this problem.
Now the question itself was implement the Fibonacci sequence in three different ways using recursion
using dynamic programming so using them zation to store the results and then using just a straight iterative
approach.
So remember it's a reminder of the Fibonacci sequence there's a link here to the Wikipedia article is
just when you take the two previous numbers and add them to get your next number in that sequence.
Now that the base case checks to see if there's a zero or a 1 in that case it returns 0 1 otherwise
it returns this fit and minus one plus fit and plus two.
So in this specific case what I wanted you to do was for the n that was input you would return the nth
number in the Fibonacci sequence.
All right.
So let's go ahead and get started.
What I'm going to do is start by going over the iterative solution first.
So if you scroll down to the bottom of the notebook that's this one.
After that we'll go through the recursion solution and then the dynamic programming solution.
So we're going to do is first walk through the entire solution.
Since that's the most straightforward one and it also shows that as far as approaches to a particular
problem you don't always have to do it a classic way or a certain way.
There's multiple ways to solve a single problem and that's really the main point of this interview question
.
Is the show three separate approaches to solving a problem.
So in a interview scenario you could easily get asked this problem of a Fibonacci sequence and you could
also be asked to solve it every single way here.
So start off with the solution.
So I'll call this fib underscore I.
TR It takes an input and and we're going to go ahead and set a starting point.
And this case started at 0 8 0 0 and then after that all we have do is just follow the algorithm that's
in place.
So for i in range remember going all the way.
And since we want the nth number and in this case we can actually use the tuple and packing method in
Python.
I can simply say a B as an equal to be a plus b.
And I just have to return.
Hey let me fix something real quick.
This should be a one.
And if we actually want to use tuple and packing further I can say A B equals zero comma 1 and that
will assign things.
This is using a very Pythonic solution to say A equals equal zero and B equals 1.
All right so let's quickly review what's going on here.
I go ahead and run that cell and then input 5 underscore that were put in 10.
I get in return 55.
OK.
So all of this is doing is just saying is going to be equal to B and B is going to be well to a plus
b and at the end return a.
So this is just using just the very simple looping technique using a for loop here to loop through the
range and then using tuple and packing to set the new Fibonacci number at the end.
All right.
So that's the most straightforward solution what I want to to make you aware of is this nice little
link and I'll add it to the solution notebook.
But if you actually just google Python are five ways of Fibonacci in Python.
Here's the complete your else on Tecno beans.
But if you Google five ways of Fibonacci in python we can go and do a google search for that.
That will take you to this page is techno beans page and I'll show you five different ways of calculating
the Fibonacci sequence in Python.
So you can use that looping technique.
This is actually what we just did in his case is start at 1 1.
Let's go in and zoom in here so you can see better.
You can also use recursion which we're about to go over.
You can do it using generator's which is an interesting way.
And then you can use memorization which will also go over.
And finally he shows using the migration as a decorator which we actually go over in the memorization
lecture itself for the factorial problem.
All right jumping back to the solutions we can now go ahead and tackle the recursive version of this
problem.
So how do we do this recursively.
Let's go ahead and get started.
We'll call our solution fib underscore or easy
and what we need to do is have a base case and a
recursive case.
So what is our base case.
Well we know we need to start with either 0 or 1.
And in that case we can just say if an is equal to zero or if and is equal to 1
return and that's it for a base case which makes sense because that's how the Fibonacci sequence starts
.
What about the recursion case.
Well that's actually just writing the algorithm for the Fibonacci sequence.
All we have to do is return the recursive call of our function on and minus one plus the recursive call
of our function on and minus two.
And let's make sure that works in a call in on 10 and then we get 55 out.
So what might be interesting to explore is using time it or any other sort of timing library in Python
to see which one of these solutions runs faster.
Again for iteration all we're doing is setting a call to 0 0 and then for I in range all the way up
to.
And you're just setting a b and then B equals a plus.
Be very similar here except using recursion you set your base case first and then in the recursive case
you recursively call this function on and minus 1 and minus 2.
So those previous two numbers then you add them up.
That gets you your final solution there.
All right.
Finally you want to explore dynamic programming using memorisation.
So in the form of about implementing here I'm going to set the cache beforehand and it's based on the
desired end of the number of the Fibonacci sequence.
So this is only going to work for this specific and that I know beforehand.
So just keep that in mind.
All right let's go ahead and get started.
It's going to look pretty similar to the recursion problem we already have but it's going to be a lot
more efficient because we're storing stuff or previous known results in memory.
So it's going to get started.
I'm going to go ahead and start with the cash information.
Now the particular way I'm doing it now is I'm sending it on an and that I already know I'm going to
ask for it.
And there's quite a few notes on why I'm doing this in the solution note book itself and how that affects
your test cell in that notebook.
So make sure you go ahead and review that before continuing on and I'll set my cash equal to a list
of Nunn's length and plus 1 or 11.
So I multiply it by that.
OK.
And then we'll have to do all have to do three things here to figure out my base cases off the check
my cash in out to basically keep setting that cash.
And then finally when I'm going to do it since I'm using minimization is return that number on that
cash.
OK.
So we've got three cases here.
Let's go ahead and get started.
Base case that's going to be the same as the normal recursion problem.
When the say if an equal to zero or an equal to one just return then.
So that's pretty straightforward.
The first numbers in the Fibonacci sequence.
Now checking the cash.
So I know that if my cash at that particular end is not equal to none.
All I have to do is return that cash because it means I haven't filled it out yet or haven't said it
.
And finally how am I going to set that cash so that cash of N here is just going to be equal to the
recursive call which is the exact same thing we just did in the recursive solution.
So basically all I'm doing here is the recursive case but I'm making sure to check my cash for us and
instead of just producing these in a recursive fashion I'm actually keeping track of them by adding
them to this list.
And in this case instead of using a pens I've set my cash first.
I already know what and I'm going to ask for.
So if I run this and then say fed the lion for they Nemec and ask 10 I'm going to get 55 out.
Now what happens if I choose another and I will get an error because you notice I get an indexer because
the list index is at a range.
And that's because the way I've set it up here to make it really obvious that we're having a cash is
that the cash instantiation outside I would have to set the end value to wherever and I'm going to run
first one for four in this case for 12.
All right.
So how could you fix that.
Well you would fix that by using a pen here and being able to create that cache on the fly as you go
along.
You wouldn't reset it or set it since the beginning here.
All right.
So those are the solutions for all three of them.
You'll notice that actual coding is very simple.
It's the thinking that's the most difficult part of this problem and that's the case for a lot of these
recursion problems.
Thinking about the problem is much much harder in the actual code you're going to write.
So let's go ahead and jump to the solutions notebook and make sure I really understand everything we
just went over.
So the interim solution we set a starting point in this case equals zero equals zero.
And we just follow the Fibonacci algorithm.
We set a will to B and then B's equal to a plus b.
Notice with tuple in unpacking I can save myself a temporary variable.
So I'm actually not setting a equal to be first otherwise this will just be a B plus B.
So that's a really nice Pythonic solution here as far as setting this all in one line.
This basically automatically takes care of the ordering so you don't have any errors of setting be equal
to B plus B or setting a equal to the new B instead of the old B.
All right.
And then for the recursive solution all you have to do is think about the base case and then just follow
the formula or the algorithm by calling it recursively on and minus one and two.
Since you are concerned with the last two numbers of that sequence in order to come up with the next
number of the sequence in in a really similar fashion here and I've instantiated the cache information
first just so it looks really similar to the recursion solution we check for that base case.
And we set a cache by calling that recursion function.
If it equals none.
All right.
So make sure you go ahead and walk through this entire solutions book to get a really good understanding
of the Fibonacci sequence problem.
It's a pretty common interview problem at least on the basic level.
Can you can learn a lot especially on learning how to solve a single problem in a bunch different ways
.
And I encourage you as a homework assignment to use some sort of time it feature in Python or some sort
of timeout library in order to see which one of these runs the fastest.
OK so that's it for this interview problem.
Good job everyone.
And I'll see you at the next lecture